---
name: Quantifying Smartphone Quality of Experience
started: 2014-11-23
leads:
- shaseley
people:
- brijeshr
- nvdirien
- challen
spelling_exceptions:
- SIGCHI
---
[.lead]
Recently, many software applications, particularly mobile apps, have moved
away from determinate progress bars--those that attempt to progress toward a
finite end. Instead, apps are utilizing indeterminate progress bars--most
notably, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Throbber[_throbbers_] like the spinning
wheel--which have no perceived end. *Progresso is a system designed to use
indeterminate progress bars to study user-facing latency on mobile devices.*
While well-written apps employ many strategies to reduce user-perceived
latency, progress bars appear when those strategies have failed or are not
employed and the user is asked to explicitly wait. This makes them an ideal
way to study the causes and consequences of latency affecting smartphone
apps.

Progress bars are a way to keep the user informed on the status of the
currently running computation. Deterministic progress bars were introduced to
computing in 1985 <<progress>>. Due to an increase in app complexity, we are
less aware of how long processes will take and what they are doing.
Furthermore, it seems that developers fallback to throbbers whenever the user
initiates a process that could take some time--no matter the length--such as
refreshing an inbox, checking for new Facebook stories, or analyzing your
month's worth of health-related activities. Unfortunately, Android's
fragmented ecosystem does not make quality control any easier on developers,
so they have no choice but to deploy to the millions of smartphone users with
this fallback and hope their users do not wait too long.

[.pullquote]#Progresso aims to shed some light on user-facing latency# by
instrumenting the Android platform to measure the on-screen time of progress
bars. Progresso combines low-level Android logging and analysis to measure
the length of time users wait for apps to complete certain actions, like
refresh their email Inbox, and to provide developers a new tool to debug
their apps by monitoring progress bars drawn on-screen. Our first goal is to
study per-app progress bar usage to determine how long progress bars take and
how much waits produced by individual progress bars vary. Understanding the
distribution of progress bar waiting times allows us to eventually identify
unusually long--or short--progress bars waits and use them to trigger
detailed logging to attempt to address root causes.

[bibliography]

- [[[progress]]] Brad A. Myers. "The Importance of 
  Percent-Done Progress Indicators for Computer-Human Interfaces." In
  _Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
  (CHI '85)_.
