---
name: Improving Smartphone Quality of Experience
title: Quantifying and Prioritizing Smartphone Quality of Experience
started: 2014-11-23
leads:
- shaseley
- ashnik@umich.edu
people:
- brijeshr
- nvdirien
- challen
- zmao@umich.edu
spelling_exceptions:
- SIGCHI
papers:
- mobisys2016-qoe
- hotmobile2017-qoe
---
[.lead]
Of all the resources that smartphones manage, human attention is the most
precious. While processor speed and core count, memory and storage capacity,
and network bandwidth have steadily and sometimes rapidly increased, the
number of hours in the day has not. And as users spend an increasing amount
of time with their personal computing devices, it is more important than ever
that these devices ensure that their time is used effectively. We refer to
this as _quality of experience_ (QoE).

Surprisingly, few resource management decisions on mobile smartphones are
made with QoE in mind. Threads are scheduled, memory is allocated, data is
stored and transmitted to other devices, but without any consideration of how
these operations related to what is on screen and the overall QoE. Our goal
is to change this by quantifying QoE and then using it to prioritize resource
management decisions--both on a single device and across the network.

There are many challenges to accomplishing this. Quantifying QoE requires
communication between normally independent layers of the system to monitor
the long chain of dependencies that characterize interactive activity.
Unmodified apps may hide important details from the underlying system, and
the tracing must be lightweight enough to perform continuously to support
resource prioritization. Some elements of bad QoE, such as poor menu design,
may be hard to quantify given available information. Prioritizing resources
based on QoE requires not only the simple distinction between what is on
screen and what is not, but also finer distinctions between on-screen
elements. [.pullquote]#But despite these challenges, we believe that
understanding QoE will fundamentally improve the design of interactive
systems and the networks they connect to.#
