---
name: Wesley Csendom
role: Web Developer, Undergraduate Student
joined: 2015-08-25
linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/pub/wesley-csendom/89/388/2a6
spelling_exceptions:
- UI
- UX
---
[.lead]
I am a third year computer science undergraduate student at the University at
Buffalo. When I began college I was working towards a degree in business and
maintained an inclination towards a liberal arts education. Growing up my
interests had always been in creativity and expression rather than technical
capabilities.

Coming from a small rural agricultural community I had no previous exposure
to the field of computer science. It was only by chance that I was exposed to
computer science by a friend two years into my educational pursuit. Two weeks
after that chance meeting I jumped out of my comfort zone and switched my
major to computer science. That fateful decision has been among the best I
have ever made. Pursuing a degree in computer science has been one of the
most challenging, enriching and rewarding experiences of my life. I believe
my eclectic educational background grants me unique perspectives in computer
science, transitioning from business to applied science gives me a broad
perspective of the field. In retrospect, if I would have looked back and
realized how much star trek I watched and wired magazines I'd read growing up
I'd have realized this is where I belonged all along.

Since August of 2015 I have been a part of Blue Labs. I am collaborating with
Geoffrey Challen and lab members to produce a website to supplement a
developing computer science course at the University at Buffalo.

My interests in the field of computer science are currently broad. My main
interests lie in innovative technology projects, data and UI/UX.
