---
name: Guru Prasad Srinivasa
role: PhD Student
joined: 2012-10-19
scholar: http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=MvOkpygAAAAJ&hl=en
---
[.lead]
I am a second year Ph.D. student. My primary work is on
link:/projects/poweragility[Power Agile Operating Systems]. My research
interests lie in operating systems, networking and mobile systems.

My tryst with computers began when my father took a huge loan to purchase a PC
[.spelling_exception]#spec'd# at 166MHz having 32MB RAM and a 1GB HDD running
Windows 95. Games were soon to follow with Microsoft's Pinball and Midway's
[.spelling_exception]#Mortal Kombat# 3. Me and my dad had this cat and mouse
game we would play wherein he would find new ways to prevent me from
playing--BIOS password, hidden folders, etc and I would be forced to bypass
these measures.

I did my undergrad in Computer Science at [.spelling_exception]#SRM# University
and joined the Masters program at the University at Buffalo in 2011. I started
working with Geoffrey Challen in the fall of 2012 and was quickly drawn to
research. This was what I had always wanted to do - build complex systems of my
own. I joined the Ph.D. program in 2013.

I love to code and so while I'm not playing computer games, I spend time on
other coding projects. Currently,
http://odin.cse.buffalo.edu/people/oliver-kennedy/[Oliver] and I are working on
a http://www.github.com/okennedy/worldtree.git[constrained world generator] for
games. I'm also trying to get my [.spelling_exception]#quadcopter# to fly and
am working on a http://wavelength.fm[Wavelength] clone so people can watch
their home videos (or movies from not-so-legitimate sources) together
